Israel says it's under direct attack by
Iran a military spokesman says drones
are on the way but they could take
several hours to arrive tyon has
repeatedly threatened retaliation after
this month's strike on its Consulate in
[Music]
[Applause]
Syria I'm Michael welcome we begin this
hour with some breaking news the Israeli
military says that Iran has launched an
attack on Israel army spokesperson
Daniel hagari says that dozens of
Iranian drones are headed towards Israel
he says that Israeli defenses are ready
to shoot them down and told residents to
take shelter if they hear
sirens Iran Iran has launched drones
from its territory towards the territory
of the state of
Israel entering the threat in the
airspace it is a threat that takes
several hours to reach the territory of
the state of Israel the IDF and the Air
Force are carrying out the plan we have
prepared now just a short time before
the attack was officially announced
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu released this video
message Israeli citizens in recent years
and even more so in recent weeks Israel
has been preparing for the possibility
of a direct attack from
our defense systems are deployed we are
prepared for any scenario both in
defense and attack the state of Israel
is strong the Israeli Army is strong the
public is strong again it Bears
repeating uh Iran has launched an attack
on Israel by drone according to the
Israeli military US DW correspon Tanya
Kramer joins us now from Jerusalem uh
Tanya what do we know about this attack
well as you said it has been confirmed
there were first uh media reports uh in
Iran that drones had been launched and
it has been confirmed by the Israeli
military that those drones are on their
way apparently also in several uh waves
now they're slow moving as we have heard
um their scope is still uh unknown but
there are more than dozens as we are
hearing here from uh sources also here
in the Israeli uh media and of course
also destination their targets rather uh
whether they will uh be destined to hit
military or softer targets like a
civilian uh targets now the Army and the
whole country have to say had been on
high alert already uh for days and again
today it it has become I know in the
afternoon emergency uh new emergency
guidelines were issued as well and now
of course tonight this uh attack has
been launched it's unprecedented of
course to see this now uh unfolding here
tonight T of course we've heard from
some of the uh Israeli leadership but
how else is Israel
responding well the country is uh on
high alert this is not entirely entirely
a surprise attack I mean the uh threats
by Iran uh had been there since uh the
attack on the consulate on April uh 1st
with the Supreme Iran supreme leader is
saying um that um this has gone too far
a red line had been crossed and that
there will be
retaliation uh so the country has been
put on high alert we have the fighter
jets in the air the naval forces are on
high alert and of course the aeral
defense systems now the question is of
course uh how many of those drones uh
Israel can intercept they will certainly
also get the help of uh the United
States they also have moved uh some of
their defense systems uh here in the
region and of course there's also the
question um will it be just drones uh
some military analysts here are saying
they could be followed by U missiles or
ballistic missiles uh or uh other
weapons we understand authorities are
calling on the public to follow
instructions of the um the home front
command have any instructions been given
yet and if so what are they saying
well the home front this uh late uh this
afternoon or early evening issued uh a
guideline um asking you know people
first of all there would be no
educational activities in the coming
days there was already an indication uh
that there was you know maybe something
uh uh coming but they said as well that
once Sirens will go off in the country
people have to take a shelter uh I came
here through a Jerusalem this evening um
it is very empty at the moment there's
still some people uh of course in the
street but uh there's a lot of you know
uh worry now of course what will happen
here in the coming hours but certainly
uh people
anticipate uh you know um that they will
have to take shelter when the sirens
here went will will go off we don't know
yet again what's the scope of this
attack uh where those drones where they
will be going uh the tar targets uh
there is the hope that they will go
rather to military targets but this is a
very very tense situation right now here
in Israel very tense we understand and
the immediacy of this is the news right
now but I want you to indulge us just
for a moment Tanya and give us sort of a
larger perspective here how have we
reached this point where the reality on
the ground is Israel not facing
increased aggression at the border from
one of Iran's proxies but rather a
direct attack from
Iran well all of this uh came I mean
Iran and Israel have been involved in
what was called here or described here
often as a shadow War um through uh the
proxies but uh on April 1st uh there has
been an attack and Israel has not taken
direct responsibility for it uh on the
Consulate in Damascus uh killing uh High
uh and high Irani commander and uh ever
since uh the uh Iranian regime has said
this cannot go unpunished as will uh uh
there will be retaliation for it and
ever since there has been uh the uh
anticipation that actually Iran will
retaliate but still it wasn't clear
whether it will go through its proxies
like the houthis from Yemen hasah from
Southern Lebanon or from some militias
in Iraq and this could also still be
coming that there could be a multif
front War but right now we are seeing uh
these multiple drones being on their way
to Israel and we have to wait and see
you know when they arrive and how Israel
will intercept them and how they will
deal with it you've touched on this a
little bit already Tanya but G give us a
sense of how prepared Israel is to
combat an attack from
Iran well the Army says they have all
the plans ready and they have been
readying for this uh certainly for a
long time but certainly uh since April
1st uh as I said it was it's not
entirely coming uh as a surprise so it
has its different uh um air defense
systems among them the Iron Dome but
also others and we also heard from the
US that Israel will not stand alone so
that indicates they will also probably
get help uh in uh intercepting those
drones it will become more complicated
uh military analysts here saying when
you know there will be a multif front
War don't forget we have a war in Gaza
we also have uh border cross border fire
uh and high tensions at the in southern
Lebanon and Northern Israel between
Hezbollah and uh Israel of course and it
could still you know go further than
these drones but that alone it's an
attack from Iran on Israel this is
unprecedented we haven't seen this so uh
we have to wait and see in the next hour
how this will unfold
our many thanks to Tanya ker in
Jerusalem Tanya we may see you later
many
thanks Let's cross over now to our
correspondent in Washington uh Stefan
Simons Stefan uh the US President Joe
Biden has cut short a weekend trip to
Delaware to return to the White House we
also understand his defense secretary
Lord Austin earlier spoke to his Israeli
count apart what has the US publicly
said about this attack thus
far absolutely right President Biden is
way on his way back to the White House
to meet with his National Security
Council staff National Security Count
Council and advisors um as you're right
also defense secretary Austin Lloyd has
talked to the his Israeli counterpart
but also to other uh partners and allies
Arab countries and Arab counterparts uh
secretaries of defense in Arab countries
over the last few hours so the US is and
was as you may remember yesterday
warning that this could be happening
very soon that Iran could
um come to those strikes uh uh rather
sooner than later the president said
yesterday doing a press conference he
also said don't don't do it Iran but of
course um those calls for restraint have
not been hid by uh Iran now now what is
uh going to happen now here in the US
they will analyze what's going on right
now as of as you said before and as the
guest said before um there is a drone
strike going on those drones are
traveling very very slowly um and Israel
Israeli Defense Forces should be able to
take those out if there's more that's a
problem that's a problem all of this is
a major problem for the United States
and for the white house because it was
the de will of the White House to
deescalate to not let this happen and
that Iran now strikes directly direct
strike or effort to strike Israel from
Iranian soil is at as unprecedented and
historic it is and therefore constitutes
a big problem and challenge for the
White House yeah we've all been
anticipating this for days but it's in
the details where things get sticky
Washington has pledged to support
Israel's defense how will it do
that well in the last few uh days
I want to say weeks the US has moved
parts Military Parts defensive in
defensive nature in the region um a
high-ranking military official was in
the last few days in Israel to discuss
actually exactly that what happens if uh
how are we prepared how can we help how
can the United States help uh Israel in
case Iran uh strikes Israel and the the
problem there is if if it if it's all
drones and nothing else and it is as we
also pointed out before well publicized
by Iran that's a sign and the US took it
that way a sign that Iran wants Israel
to know to be prepared that some
retaliation comes now how uh far these
very tight rope they are walking Iran
with adding more retaliation measures
that's a problem and that is what the US
is prepared for with military assets
when I say this that means defensive
nature that doesn't mean US troops on
the ground no boots on the ground the
president was uh keen on this so I would
say intelligence radar early detection
and all of those kind of assets let's
walk back a little bit Stefan and and
and get a full perspective on this what
steps has the US been taking to prevent
this situation escalating into a wider
Regional
War well as you know the UN United
States has no direct diplomatic
relationships with uh Iran the Swiss
handled this but of course there is
communication through back doors and
back channels and the US was always very
very clear to say and to warn Iran from
anything that could really blow this up
blowing this up means widen this
conflict make this a uh significant
bigger significantly bigger regional
conflict now what has the US done in
terms of being prepared it is only in
One Direction and that is militarily
defensive militarily and to the benefit
of Israel so the president said the
White House said despite our difference
with Benjamin Nan and the current prime
minister in in in Israel and about
what's going on in Gaza and the lack of
Aid and so on uh we will be
Ironclad cladly support Israel our
support will be Ironclad we will stand
by our Ally Israel uh no matter what um
but that's the gist of it that's the
most of it so there is a declaration us
will help Israel whatever comes and we
don't know what comes yet if the Iran is
launching more than just slow moving
drones which can be um taken out and
anticipated fairly easily by Israeli or
even us assets air defense assets um
then this is a really different picture
and then we there is we have to all wait
and see and there's time to pass before
we can actually say like okay what is
the US actually now doing but again
right it it it it serves us all well to
remember and I'm sorry uh if I take an
extra second here that this is an
ongoing situation that we do not have
all the answers or a clear picture of
what is going on but again the US says
whatever happens they're staying with
Israel and will do anything they
possibly can to defend Israel from any
attack by Iran or anybody
else our deep thanks as always to DW
correspondent Stefan Simons in
Washington